CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to trestlebot

Thank you for your interest in the trestlebot project.

Before you start contributing, please take a moment to read through the guide below.

> WARNING: This project is currently under initial development. APIs may be changed incompatibly from one commit to another.

- [Contributing to trestlebot](#contributing-to-trestlebot)
  - [How To Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
  - [Opening a Pull Request](#opening-a-pull-request)
  - [Developer Guide](#developer-guide)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Development Environment](#development-environment)
    - [How It Works](#how-it-works)
      - [Components](#components)
      - [Code structure](#code-structure)
    - [Documentation](#documentation)
      - [Architecture Decisions](#architecture-decisions)
      - [Update the `actions` files](#update-the-actions-files)
      - [Authoring CI Workflows](#authoring-ci-workflows)
    - [License Text in Files](#license-text-in-files)
    - [Tools](#tools)
      - [Format and Styling](#format-and-styling)
      - [Type Hints and Static Type Checking](#type-hints-and-static-type-checking)
      - [Analysis Tools](#analysis-tools)
    - [Running tests](#running-tests)
      - [Running tests with make](#running-tests-with-make)
      - [Run with poetry](#run-with-poetry)
      - [Local testing](#local-testing)
    - [Release Process](#release-process)


## How To Contribute

Some initial contributions could be:

- Improving the documentation
- Adding test coverage
- Try out issues that have the label `good first issue`
- Opening an issue for bugs or feature requests

## Opening a Pull Request

When submitting a pull request, please follow these guidelines:

1. Ensure that you have an issue submitted first and reference it in your pull request.
2. Ensure that your code passes all CI tests.
3. Please keep the pull request focused on a single issue or feature, if possible.

## Developer Guide

### Prerequisites

- [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) - v3.8+
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/)
- [Podman](https://podman.io/docs/installation) (Optional) - For testing locally and end-to-end tests

### Development Environment

For a reproducible development environment, we use Dev Containers. See [devcontainer.json](./.devcontainer/devcontainer.json) for more information. Note that this does not include the `podman` installation to avoid the requirement for containers with elevated privileges.

### How It Works

For workflow diagrams, see the [diagrams](./docs/workflows/) under the `docs` folder.

#### Components

1. CI Provider - Runs or builds and runs trestle-bot container
2. Trestle Bot - Provides logic for managing workspace and containerized environment for use in workflows
3. Compliance-Trestle - Upstream library that provides core logic for how OSCAL content is managed

#### Code structure

- `actions` - Provides specific logic for `trestle-bot` tasks that are packaged as Actions. See [README.md](./actions/README.md) for more information.
- `cli` - Provides top level logic for specific user-facing tasks. These tasks are not necessarily related so they are not organized into a hierarchical command structure, but they do share some common modules.
- `cli/commands` - Provides top level logic for commands and their associated subcommands. The commands are accessed by the single entrypoint `root.py`.
- `cli/options` - Provides command line options and arguments that are frequently used within `cli/commands`.
- `provider.py, github.py, and gitlab.py` - Git provider abstract class and concrete implementations for interacting with the API.
- `tasks` - Pre-tasks can be configured before the main git logic is run. Any task that does workspace management should go here.
- `tasks/authored` - The `authored` package contains logic for managing authoring tasks for single instances of a top-level OSCAL model. These encapsulate logic from the `compliance-trestle` library and allows loose coupling between `tasks` and `authored` types.
- `transformers` - This contains data transformation logic; specifically for rules.


### Documentation

#### Architecture Decisions

We document decisions using [Architectural Decision Records](http://thinkrelevance.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions). The team will decide when an ADR will be put in place, but this is generally done to document impactful architectural decisions.

* Create an instance of the ADR template using `trestle author docs create-sample -tn decisions -tr docs/architecture`.
* This can be tested locally via `trestle author docs validate --task-name decisions -hv -tr docs/architecture`


#### Update the `actions` files

Each `README.md` under the `actions` directory have an Actions Inputs and Action Outputs section. These sections are generated from the `action.yml` file in the directory. To update the `README.md` files, run the following command:

```bash
make update-action-readmes
```

#### Authoring CI Workflows

The CI workflows for trestle-bot leverage third party actions pinned to a hash value which is updated by `dependabot.yml`. The purpose of pinning actions to a full length commit SHA is to ensure that the action's code and behavior remain consistent. Actions that are pinned to full length commit SHAs act as immutable releases which allow for distinction between versions and an accurate history log. When selecting a commit SHA to include, the SHA value that is associated with the version of the action should be chosen from the associated action's repository. Dependabot checks for the action's reference against the latest version ensuring a secure and consistent approach to managing dependencies and version updating.

To generate a pin for a third party action, there should be a full length commit SHA associated with the version of the action being referenced. The reference used is the full length SHA, tag, or branch that dependabot will use when updating dependencies and bumping versions.

- The syntax for a specified action is: `OWNER/REPOSITORY@TAG-OR-SHA`.
- The syntax for a specified reusable workflow is: `OWNER/REPOSITORY/PATH/FILENAME@TAG-OR-SHA`.

This approach is used for authoring CI workflows that utilize versioned actions to produce frequent updates from dependabot for python and GitHub Actions.

### License Text in Files

Please use the SPDX license identifier in all source files.

```
# SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
```

### Tools

#### Format and Styling

This project uses `black` and `isort` for formatting and `flake8` for linting. You can run these commands to format and lint your code.
Linting checks can be run as a pre-commit hook and are verified in CI.

```bash
make format
make lint
```

For non-Python files, we use [Megalinter](https://github.com/oxsecurity/megalinter) to lint in a CI task. See [megalinter.yaml](https://github.com/RedHatProductSecurity/trestle-bot/blob/main/.mega-linter.yml) for more information.

#### Type Hints and Static Type Checking

We encourage the use of type hints in Python code to enhance readability, maintainability, and robustness of the codebase. Type hints serve as documentation and aid in catching potential errors during development. For static type analysis, we utilize `mypy`. Running `make lint` will run `mypy` checks on the codebase.

#### Analysis Tools

- [SonarCloud](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=rh-psce_trestle-bot) - We use SonarCloud to analyze code quality, coverage, and security. To not break GitHub security model, this will not run on a forked repository.
- [Semgrep](https://semgrep.dev/docs/extensions/overview/#pre-commit) - Identify issues in the local development environment before committing code. These checks are also run in CI.

### Running tests

* `make test`:  Run unit tests
* `make test-slow`: Run all tests including end-to-end. For information on end-to-end tests, see the e2e [README.md](./tests/e2e/README.md).
* `make test-integration`: Run integration tests, which may be slow and also make network requests. For information on integration tests, see the integration [README.md](./tests/integration/README.md).

#### Running tests with make
```bash
# Run all tests
make test
make test-slow

# Run specific tests
make test-e2e
make test-integration
```

#### Run with poetry
```
make develop
poetry run trestlebot autosync
poetry run trestlebot rules-transform
poetry run trestlebot create compdef
poetry run trestlebot sync-upstreams
poetry run trestlebot create ssp
```

#### Local testing

For this guide, we will be using `podman` to test trestlebot in a running container.

1. Build the image

```bash
podman build -f Dockerfile -t localhost:5000/trestlebot:latest
```

2. Create an environment variables file if testing with the entrypoint script.

> The entrypoint script is where the logic for GitHub specific integrations should be. The environment variables file will contain variables set by GitHub Actions.

Example file named `envfile`

```
cat envfile
...

GITHUB_OUTPUT=
INPUT_SKIP_ITEMS=
INPUT_DRY_RUN=true
INPUT_SKIP_ASSEMBLE=false
INPUT_SKIP_REGENERATE=false
INPUT_REPO_PATH=.
INPUT_BRANCH=test
INPUT_MARKDOWN_DIR=markdown/profiles
INPUT_OSCAL_MODEL=profile
INPUT_SSP_INDEX_FILE=
INPUT_COMMIT_MESSAGE=
INPUT_COMMIT_USER_NAME=testuser
INPUT_COMMIT_USER_EMAIL=test@example.com
INPUT_FILE_PATTERNS=*.md,*.json
INPUT_COMMIT_AUTHOR_NAME=
INPUT_COMMIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL=
INPUT_TARGET_BRANCH=
GITHUB_ACTIONS=true

```
3. Use `podman secret` to store sensitive information like API tokens

```bash
cat my-token.txt | podman secret create repo-secret -
```

4. Run the container

```bash
podman run --entrypoint /entrypoint.sh --secret repo-secret,type=env,target=TRESTLEBOT_REPO_ACCESS_TOKEN --env-file=envfile -v my-trestle-space:/data -w /data localhost:5000/trestlebot:latest
```

#### Local GitHub actions

Podman setup

* The workflows can be executed locally by installing `act` and `podman`.
* For rootless podman to work with `act`:
  * Enable the socket: `systemctl --user enable --now podman.socket`
  * Set the `DOCKER_HOST` environment variable in your ~/.bashrc:
    * `export DOCKER_HOST=unix://$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/podman/podman.sock`

Trestle repository setup

* `cd` to the repository's parent directory
* `git clone --bare trestle-repo trestle-repo-bare.git`
* `cd` back to the trestle repository
* `git remote add origin ../trestle-repo-bare.git`
* `git fetch --all`



### Release Process

Once work on a release has been completed:

1. Select the new release number. Use the principles of [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/) to select the new release number.
2. Follow the GitHub documentation on creating a [release](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/managing-releases-in-a-repository#creating-a-release).
3. Once the release is published, the [`publish`](./.github/workflows/publish.yml) workflow will be triggered. An image will be built, tested, and published to `quay.io`. This process also signs and verifies the image with [`cosign`](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign).

- Initial releases will have a `major` tag (if stable), `major`.`minor`, and the full version.
- The latest release will be rebuilt every thirty days to pull in base image updates. The same tags will
be published with the addition of `full-version`.`date` tag.
- Images can be built adhoc for testing purposes with the `workflow_dispatch` trigger.

Commit message:

rename trestlebot to complyscribe throughout docs

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to ComplyScribe 

Thank you for your interest in the complyscribe project.

Before you start contributing, please take a moment to read through the guide below.

> WARNING: This project is currently under initial development. APIs may be changed incompatibly from one commit to another.

- [Contributing to complyscribe](#contributing-to-complyscribe)
  - [How To Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
  - [Opening a Pull Request](#opening-a-pull-request)
  - [Developer Guide](#developer-guide)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Development Environment](#development-environment)
    - [How It Works](#how-it-works)
      - [Components](#components)
      - [Code structure](#code-structure)
    - [Documentation](#documentation)
      - [Architecture Decisions](#architecture-decisions)
      - [Update the `actions` files](#update-the-actions-files)
      - [Authoring CI Workflows](#authoring-ci-workflows)
    - [License Text in Files](#license-text-in-files)
    - [Tools](#tools)
      - [Format and Styling](#format-and-styling)
      - [Type Hints and Static Type Checking](#type-hints-and-static-type-checking)
      - [Analysis Tools](#analysis-tools)
    - [Running tests](#running-tests)
      - [Running tests with make](#running-tests-with-make)
      - [Run with poetry](#run-with-poetry)
      - [Local testing](#local-testing)
    - [Release Process](#release-process)


## How To Contribute

Some initial contributions could be:

- Improving the documentation
- Adding test coverage
- Try out issues that have the label `good first issue`
- Opening an issue for bugs or feature requests

## Opening a Pull Request

When submitting a pull request, please follow these guidelines:

1. Ensure that you have an issue submitted first and reference it in your pull request.
2. Ensure that your code passes all CI tests.
3. Please keep the pull request focused on a single issue or feature, if possible.

## Developer Guide

### Prerequisites

- [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) - v3.8+
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/)
- [Podman](https://podman.io/docs/installation) (Optional) - For testing locally and end-to-end tests

### Development Environment

For a reproducible development environment, we use Dev Containers. See [devcontainer.json](./.devcontainer/devcontainer.json) for more information. Note that this does not include the `podman` installation to avoid the requirement for containers with elevated privileges.

### How It Works

For workflow diagrams, see the [diagrams](./docs/workflows/) under the `docs` folder.

#### Components

1. CI Provider - Runs or builds and runs complyscribe container
2. ComplyScribe - Provides logic for managing workspace and containerized environment for use in workflows
3. Compliance-Trestle - Upstream library that provides core logic for how OSCAL content is managed

#### Code structure

- `actions` - Provides specific logic for `complyscribe` tasks that are packaged as Actions. See [README.md](./actions/README.md) for more information.
- `cli` - Provides top level logic for specific user-facing tasks. These tasks are not necessarily related so they are not organized into a hierarchical command structure, but they do share some common modules.
- `cli/commands` - Provides top level logic for commands and their associated subcommands. The commands are accessed by the single entrypoint `root.py`.
- `cli/options` - Provides command line options and arguments that are frequently used within `cli/commands`.
- `provider.py, github.py, and gitlab.py` - Git provider abstract class and concrete implementations for interacting with the API.
- `tasks` - Pre-tasks can be configured before the main git logic is run. Any task that does workspace management should go here.
- `tasks/authored` - The `authored` package contains logic for managing authoring tasks for single instances of a top-level OSCAL model. These encapsulate logic from the `compliance-trestle` library and allows loose coupling between `tasks` and `authored` types.
- `transformers` - This contains data transformation logic; specifically for rules.


### Documentation

#### Architecture Decisions

We document decisions using [Architectural Decision Records](http://thinkrelevance.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions). The team will decide when an ADR will be put in place, but this is generally done to document impactful architectural decisions.

* Create an instance of the ADR template using `trestle author docs create-sample -tn decisions -tr docs/architecture`.
* This can be tested locally via `trestle author docs validate --task-name decisions -hv -tr docs/architecture`


#### Update the `actions` files

Each `README.md` under the `actions` directory have an Actions Inputs and Action Outputs section. These sections are generated from the `action.yml` file in the directory. To update the `README.md` files, run the following command:

```bash
make update-action-readmes
```

#### Authoring CI Workflows

The CI workflows for complyscribe leverage third party actions pinned to a hash value which is updated by `dependabot.yml`. The purpose of pinning actions to a full length commit SHA is to ensure that the action's code and behavior remain consistent. Actions that are pinned to full length commit SHAs act as immutable releases which allow for distinction between versions and an accurate history log. When selecting a commit SHA to include, the SHA value that is associated with the version of the action should be chosen from the associated action's repository. Dependabot checks for the action's reference against the latest version ensuring a secure and consistent approach to managing dependencies and version updating.

To generate a pin for a third party action, there should be a full length commit SHA associated with the version of the action being referenced. The reference used is the full length SHA, tag, or branch that dependabot will use when updating dependencies and bumping versions.

- The syntax for a specified action is: `OWNER/REPOSITORY@TAG-OR-SHA`.
- The syntax for a specified reusable workflow is: `OWNER/REPOSITORY/PATH/FILENAME@TAG-OR-SHA`.

This approach is used for authoring CI workflows that utilize versioned actions to produce frequent updates from dependabot for python and GitHub Actions.

### License Text in Files

Please use the SPDX license identifier in all source files.

```
# SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
```

### Tools

#### Format and Styling

This project uses `black` and `isort` for formatting and `flake8` for linting. You can run these commands to format and lint your code.
Linting checks can be run as a pre-commit hook and are verified in CI.

```bash
make format
make lint
```

For non-Python files, we use [Megalinter](https://github.com/oxsecurity/megalinter) to lint in a CI task. See [megalinter.yaml](https://github.com/RedHatProductSecurity/complyscribe/blob/main/.mega-linter.yml) for more information.

#### Type Hints and Static Type Checking

We encourage the use of type hints in Python code to enhance readability, maintainability, and robustness of the codebase. Type hints serve as documentation and aid in catching potential errors during development. For static type analysis, we utilize `mypy`. Running `make lint` will run `mypy` checks on the codebase.

#### Analysis Tools

- [SonarCloud](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=rh-psce_trestle-bot) - We use SonarCloud to analyze code quality, coverage, and security. To not break GitHub security model, this will not run on a forked repository.
- [Semgrep](https://semgrep.dev/docs/extensions/overview/#pre-commit) - Identify issues in the local development environment before committing code. These checks are also run in CI.

### Running tests

* `make test`:  Run unit tests
* `make test-slow`: Run all tests including end-to-end. For information on end-to-end tests, see the e2e [README.md](./tests/e2e/README.md).
* `make test-integration`: Run integration tests, which may be slow and also make network requests. For information on integration tests, see the integration [README.md](./tests/integration/README.md).

#### Running tests with make
```bash
# Run all tests
make test
make test-slow

# Run specific tests
make test-e2e
make test-integration
```

#### Run with poetry
```
make develop
poetry run complyscribe autosync
poetry run copmlyscribe rules-transform
poetry run complyscribe create compdef
poetry run complyscribe sync-upstreams
poetry run complyscribe create ssp
```

#### Local testing

For this guide, we will be using `podman` to test complyscribe in a running container.

1. Build the image

```bash
podman build -f Dockerfile -t localhost:5000/complyscribe:latest
```

2. Create an environment variables file if testing with the entrypoint script.

> The entrypoint script is where the logic for GitHub specific integrations should be. The environment variables file will contain variables set by GitHub Actions.

Example file named `envfile`

```
cat envfile
...

GITHUB_OUTPUT=
INPUT_SKIP_ITEMS=
INPUT_DRY_RUN=true
INPUT_SKIP_ASSEMBLE=false
INPUT_SKIP_REGENERATE=false
INPUT_REPO_PATH=.
INPUT_BRANCH=test
INPUT_MARKDOWN_DIR=markdown/profiles
INPUT_OSCAL_MODEL=profile
INPUT_SSP_INDEX_FILE=
INPUT_COMMIT_MESSAGE=
INPUT_COMMIT_USER_NAME=testuser
INPUT_COMMIT_USER_EMAIL=test@example.com
INPUT_FILE_PATTERNS=*.md,*.json
INPUT_COMMIT_AUTHOR_NAME=
INPUT_COMMIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL=
INPUT_TARGET_BRANCH=
GITHUB_ACTIONS=true

```
3. Use `podman secret` to store sensitive information like API tokens

```bash
cat my-token.txt | podman secret create repo-secret -
```

4. Run the container

```bash
podman run --entrypoint /entrypoint.sh --secret repo-secret,type=env,target=COMPLYSCRIBE_REPO_ACCESS_TOKEN --env-file=envfile -v my-trestle-space:/data -w /data localhost:5000/complyscribe:latest
```

#### Local GitHub actions

Podman setup

* The workflows can be executed locally by installing `act` and `podman`.
* For rootless podman to work with `act`:
  * Enable the socket: `systemctl --user enable --now podman.socket`
  * Set the `DOCKER_HOST` environment variable in your ~/.bashrc:
    * `export DOCKER_HOST=unix://$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/podman/podman.sock`

Trestle repository setup

* `cd` to the repository's parent directory
* `git clone --bare trestle-repo trestle-repo-bare.git`
* `cd` back to the trestle repository
* `git remote add origin ../trestle-repo-bare.git`
* `git fetch --all`



### Release Process

Once work on a release has been completed:

1. Select the new release number. Use the principles of [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/) to select the new release number.
2. Follow the GitHub documentation on creating a [release](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/managing-releases-in-a-repository#creating-a-release).
3. Once the release is published, the [`publish`](./.github/workflows/publish.yml) workflow will be triggered. An image will be built, tested, and published to `quay.io`. This process also signs and verifies the image with [`cosign`](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign).

- Initial releases will have a `major` tag (if stable), `major`.`minor`, and the full version.
- The latest release will be rebuilt every thirty days to pull in base image updates. The same tags will
be published with the addition of `full-version`.`date` tag.
- Images can be built adhoc for testing purposes with the `workflow_dispatch` trigger.
