docs/index.md, before:

# Overview

[![Pre commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-apache-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=rh-psce_trestle-bot&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=rh-psce_trestle-bot)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=rh-psce_trestle-bot&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=rh-psce_trestle-bot)



trestle-bot assists users in leveraging [Compliance-Trestle](https://github.com/oscal-compass/compliance-trestle) in CI/CD workflows for [OSCAL](https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL) formatted compliance content management.

> WARNING: This project is currently under initial development. APIs may be changed incompatibly from one commit to another.

## Getting Started

### Available Commands

The `autosync` command will sync trestle-generated Markdown files to OSCAL JSON files in a trestle workspace. All content under the provided markdown directory when the action is run will be transformed. This action supports all top-level models [supported by compliance-trestle for authoring](https://oscal-compass.github.io/compliance-trestle/tutorials/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring/).

The `rules-transform` command can be used when managing [OSCAL Component Definitions](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/component-definition/json-outline/) in a trestle workspace. The action will transform rules defined in the rules YAML view to an OSCAL Component Definition JSON file.

The `create-cd` command can be used to create a new [OSCAL Component Definition](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/component-definition/json-outline/) in a trestle workspace. The action will create a new Component Definition JSON file and corresponding directories that contain rules YAML files and trestle-generated Markdown files. This action prepares the workspace for use with the `rules-transform` and `autosync` actions.

The `sync-upstreams` command can be used to sync and validate upstream OSCAL content stored in a git repository to a local trestle workspace. Which content is synced is determined by the `include_model_names` and `exclude_model_names` inputs.

The `create-ssp` command can be used to create a new [OSCAL System Security Plans](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/system-security-plan/json-outline/) (SSP) in a trestle workspace. The action will create a new SSP JSON file and corresponding directories that contain trestle-generated Markdown files. This action prepares the workspace for use with the `autosync` action by creating or updating the `ssp-index.json` file. The `ssp-index.json` file is used to track the relationships between the SSP and the other OSCAL content in the workspace for the `autosync` action.

The `sync-cac-content` command can be used to create or update an [OSCAL Catalog](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/catalog/json-outline/) (Catalog), an [OSCAL Profile](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/profile/json-outline/) (Component Definition), or an [OSCAL Component Definition](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/component-definition/json-outline/) (Component Definition) in a trestle workspace, based on SSG content.

Below is a table of the available commands and their current availability as a GitHub Action:

| Command                    | Available as a GitHub Action |
|----------------------------|------------------------------|
| `autosync`                 | &#10003;                     |
| `rules-transform`          | &#10003;                     |
| `create-cd`                | &#10003;                     |
| `sync-upstreams`           | &#10003;                     |
| `create-ssp`               |                              |
| `sync-cac-content`         |                              |

For detailed documentation on how to use each action, see the README.md in each folder under [actions](./actions/).

### Supported Git Providers

> Note: Only applicable if using `trestle-bot` to create pull requests. Automatically detecting the git
provider information is supported for GitHub Actions (GitHub) and GitLab CI (GitLab).

- GitHub
- GitLab

### Run as a Container

> Note: When running the commands in a container, all are prefixed with `trestlebot` (e.g. `trestlebot-autosync`). The default entrypoint for the container is the autosync command.

Build and run the container locally:

```bash
podman build -f Dockerfile -t trestle-bot .
podman run -v $(pwd):/data -w /data trestle-bot
```

Container images are available in `quay.io`:

```bash
podman run -v $(pwd):/data -w /data quay.io/continuouscompliance/trestle-bot:<tag>
```

Commit message:

rename trestlebot to complyscribe throughout docs

docs/index.md, after:

# Overview

[![Pre commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-apache-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=rh-psce_trestle-bot&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=rh-psce_trestle-bot)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=rh-psce_trestle-bot&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=rh-psce_trestle-bot)



ComplyScribe assists users in leveraging [Compliance-Trestle](https://github.com/oscal-compass/compliance-trestle) in CI/CD workflows for [OSCAL](https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL) formatted compliance content management.

> WARNING: This project is currently under initial development. APIs may be changed incompatibly from one commit to another.

## Getting Started

### Available Commands

The `autosync` command will sync trestle-generated Markdown files to OSCAL JSON files in a trestle workspace. All content under the provided markdown directory when the action is run will be transformed. This action supports all top-level models [supported by compliance-trestle for authoring](https://oscal-compass.github.io/compliance-trestle/tutorials/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring/).

The `rules-transform` command can be used when managing [OSCAL Component Definitions](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/component-definition/json-outline/) in a trestle workspace. The action will transform rules defined in the rules YAML view to an OSCAL Component Definition JSON file.

The `create-cd` command can be used to create a new [OSCAL Component Definition](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/component-definition/json-outline/) in a trestle workspace. The action will create a new Component Definition JSON file and corresponding directories that contain rules YAML files and trestle-generated Markdown files. This action prepares the workspace for use with the `rules-transform` and `autosync` actions.

The `sync-upstreams` command can be used to sync and validate upstream OSCAL content stored in a git repository to a local trestle workspace. Which content is synced is determined by the `include_model_names` and `exclude_model_names` inputs.

The `create-ssp` command can be used to create a new [OSCAL System Security Plans](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/system-security-plan/json-outline/) (SSP) in a trestle workspace. The action will create a new SSP JSON file and corresponding directories that contain trestle-generated Markdown files. This action prepares the workspace for use with the `autosync` action by creating or updating the `ssp-index.json` file. The `ssp-index.json` file is used to track the relationships between the SSP and the other OSCAL content in the workspace for the `autosync` action.

The `sync-cac-content` command can be used to create or update an [OSCAL Catalog](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/catalog/json-outline/) (Catalog), an [OSCAL Profile](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/profile/json-outline/) (Component Definition), or an [OSCAL Component Definition](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL-Reference/models/v1.1.1/component-definition/json-outline/) (Component Definition) in a trestle workspace, based on SSG content.

Below is a table of the available commands and their current availability as a GitHub Action:

| Command                    | Available as a GitHub Action |
|----------------------------|------------------------------|
| `autosync`                 | &#10003;                     |
| `rules-transform`          | &#10003;                     |
| `create-cd`                | &#10003;                     |
| `sync-upstreams`           | &#10003;                     |
| `create-ssp`               |                              |
| `sync-cac-content`         |                              |

For detailed documentation on how to use each action, see the README.md in each folder under [actions](./actions/).

### Supported Git Providers

> Note: Only applicable if using `complyscribe` to create pull requests. Automatically detecting the git
provider information is supported for GitHub Actions (GitHub) and GitLab CI (GitLab).

- GitHub
- GitLab

### Run as a Container

> Note: When running the commands in a container, all are prefixed with `complyscribe` (e.g. `complyscribe-autosync`). The default entrypoint for the container is the autosync command.

Build and run the container locally:

```bash
podman build -f Dockerfile -t complyscribe.
podman run -v $(pwd):/data -w /data complyscribe 
```

Container images are available in `quay.io`:

```bash
podman run -v $(pwd):/data -w /data quay.io/continuouscompliance/complyscribe:<tag>
```
